= About {TaskJuggler}[http://www.taskjuggler.org]

TaskJuggler is a modern and powerful, Free and Open Source Software project
management tool. Its new approach to project planing and tracking is more
flexible and superior to the commonly used Gantt chart editing tools.

TaskJuggler is project management software for serious project managers. It
covers the complete spectrum of project management tasks from the first idea
to the completion of the project. It assists you during project scoping,
resource assignment, cost and revenue planing, risk management, and communication
management.

TaskJuggler provides an optimizing scheduler that computes your project time
lines and resource assignments based on the project outline and the
constraints that you have provided. The built-in resource balancer and
consistency checker offload you from having to worry about irrelevant details
and ring the alarm if the project gets out of hand. The flexible
as-many-details-as-necessary approach allows you to plan your project as you
go, making it also ideal for new management strategies such as Extreme
Programming and Agile Project Management.

If you are about to build a skyscraper or just want to put together the
release schedule of your open source project, TaskJuggler is the right
tool for you. If you just want to draw nice looking Gantt charts to impress
your boss or your investors, TaskJuggler might not be right for you. You
can of course create nice looking Gantt charts. But it takes a little more
effort to master its power. If you are up for this, TaskJuggler will
become a companion that you don't want to miss anymore.

TaskJuggler is written in {Ruby}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/] and should
be easily installable and usable on all popular operating systems. It may
sound surprising at first, but this software does not need a graphical user
interface. A command shell, a plain text editor (no word processor!), and a web
browser is all you need for your work.

= Features and Highlights

== Basic Properties

* Manages tasks, resources and accounts of your project
* Powerful to-do list management
* Detailed reference manual
* Simple installation
* Runs on all Linux, Unix, Windows, MacOS and several other operating systems
* Full integration with Vim text editor

== Advanced Scheduling

* Automatic resource leveling and tasks conflict resolution
* Unlimited number of scenarios (baselines) of the same project for what-if analysis
* Flexible working hours and leave management
* Support for shift working
* Multiple time zone support

== Accounting

* Tasks may have initial costs, finishing costs
* Resources may have usage based costs
* Task and/or resource base cost models
* Support for profit/loss analysis

== Reporting

* Comprehensive and flexible reports so you can find the information you need when you need it
* Powerful filtering functions to provide the right amount of detail to the right audience
* Time and status sheet reporting infrastructure
* Project tracking and status reporting with dashboard support

== Scaling and Enterprise Features

* Projects can be combined into larger projects
* Support for central resource allocation database
* Manages roles and complex reporting lines
* Powerful project description language with macro support
* Scales well on multi-core or multi-CPU systems
* Support for project management teams and revision control systems
* Data export to Microsoft Project and Computer Associates Clarity

== Web Publishing and Groupware Functions

* HTML reports for web publishing
* CSV data export for exchange with popular office software
* iCalendar export for data exchange with calendar and productivity applications
* Built-in web server for dynamic and interactive reports
* Server based time sheet system for status and actual work reporting

= Installation

Installation instructions can be found {here}[http://www.taskjuggler.org/tj3/manual/Installation.html#Installation].

= Introduction and Tutorial

To learn more about how to use TaskJuggler please see the {user
manual}[http://www.taskjuggler.org/tj3/manual/index.html]. It also contains a
{tutorial}[http://www.taskjuggler.org/tj3/manual/Tutorial.html#The_Tutorial_Your_first_Project]
to get you started. It will tell you how to generate HTML reports
like
{these}[http://www.taskjuggler.org/tj3/examples/Tutorial/Overview.html]
from such a {project
description}[http://www.taskjuggler.org/tj3/examples/Tutorial/tutorial.tjp].

= Getting Help and reporting Bugs

There are several mailing list for TaskJuggler users and developers.
Please see {this page}[http://www.taskjuggler.org/contact.html] for
details. If you have a question about TaskJuggler usage, the user
list is the best place to go. Please remain subscribed and help other
users when you get more proficient in TaskJuggler.

If you think that you have found a bug in the software, please view 
the {bug reporting
guidelines}[http://www.taskjuggler.org/tj3/manual/Reporting_Bugs.html#Reporting_Bugs_and_Sending_Feedback].

= Copyright and License

TaskJuggler is (c) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 by Chris Schlaeger <chris@linux.com>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of {version 2 of the GNU General Public
License}[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html] as
published by the Free Software Foundation. You accept the terms of
this license by distributing or using this software.

TaskJuggler[http://www.taskjuggler.org] is a trademark of Chris Schlaeger.
